IDEAS:

maybe fuse data channels

maybe yolo-based architecture, being able to inference from any input size. like oneshot. not having to cut image in snippets

check metric. work on loss function first. before changingn anything on architecture. because then i still have somehting to compare

inferencing center. calculate corners from it with analytic hardcoded function. calculate loss with corners [better option, because it is easier to inference center]
inferencing corner. calcualte loss with corners


OTHERS:
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install --reinstall -y rsync



TODO:
-resnet
-regularizing
-docu





CURRENT TASKS:


continue with automatic script, copy weights and graphs back. make a system. so i can run a lot of experiments at once:
argument for train.py: folder_name
if folder_name not given, then default folder name. which is overwritten each time

using better gpu does not improve anything. so computation time on cpu is probably the issue....


maybe reason why squared loss performs worse: having non stetig loss function is even more volatile and worse with quadratic loss



get loss function so good that it worked like before. maybe huber loss
see if i have outlier -> tat could be the problem for pure L2 loss. also understand theory of cube loss, if loss jumps or knick when permutation changes....



going to use MSE and RMSE ... to be able to compare both need to calculate RMSE always as metric ...question where is ROOT calculated

to be able to compare loss function properly



loss and metric

loss from train and loss from val
....but also want to see how train from one 





z upwards, images on ground as reference or on side. display also data number

undrstand why few images fit perfect why others do not fit at all
maybe fewer box closer zoom by matplotlib -> how image on bottom
maybe if all bad boxes are from same image, then it is corrupted data from tath one image, noise which neds to be remove. or maybe also bad region cropped for input dats

data ambiguation. enough to flip, translate and rotate pc and bb, do not have to translate coordinates of bb
maybe need attention mechanism from mask to coordinates.
maybe seperate heads for inferencing rotation, translation and size

understand why no overfitting. maybe just let it. just accept it....



so maybe channels did not help because i increased batch size



            CPU                             CPU->GPU    GPU

RTX 3060    4.4 [mostly dataloader]          0.1        0.3

RTX 5090    1.3 [mostly dataloader]          0          0.1







TODO:

make dataloader faster
noise in data: maybe cropping of mask is bad



maybe just create validation object...  for train .py?? faster

see how much compute saving of model takes. maybe only save every fifth epoch